# what we are forecasting
The topic for the wind forecasting is focused on mimicking the operation 48-hour ahead prediction of hourly power generation at 7 wind farms, based on historical measurements and additional wind forecast information (48-hour ahead predictions of wind speed and direction at the sites). The data is available for period ranging from the 1st hour of 2009/7/1 to the 12th hour of 2012/6/28.

The period between 2009/7/1 and 2010/12/31 is a model identification and training period, while the remainder of the dataset, that is, from 2011/1/1 to 2012/6/28, is there for the evaluation. The training period is there to be used for designing and estimating models  to predict wind power generation at lead times from 1 to 48 hours ahead, based on past power observations and/or available meteorological wind forecasts for that period. Over the evaluation part, it is aimed at mimicking real operational conditions. For that, a number of 48-hour periods with missing power observations where defined. All these power observations are to be predicted. These periods are defined as following. The first period with missing observations is that from 2011/1/1 at 01:00 until 2011/1/3 at 00:00. The second period with missing observations is that from 2011/1/4 at 13:00 until 2011/1/6 at 12:00. Note that to be consistent, only the meteorological forecasts for that period that would actually be available in practice are given. These two periods then repeats every 7 days until the end of the dataset. In between periods with missing data, power observations are available for updating the models.

# Evaluation
The forecasting accuracy will be evaluated with a Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) criterion. The RMSE is calculated as the square root of the average of square forecast errors. All forecasts will be equally weighted in the score calculation.